Appendix on memory usage (#1302)
NomicFoundation/slang: documentation/public/user-guide/09-appendix/02-slang-memory-management/index.md

## Finalizers

To dispose of resources, JavaScript defines a [`FinalizationRegistry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/FinalizationRegistry), where each object's _finalizer_ function is registered. The finalizer is responsible for cleanup, and the engine is responsible for eventually calling this function for objects that have been garbage-collected.

Slang's JavaScript interface registers its finalizers in the `FinalizationRegistry` to dispose of the memory used in Wasm. One might hold the false expectation that once an object is disposed of by the garbage collector, its finalizer will run. However, the JavaScript specification defines something different:

> A conforming JavaScript implementation, even one that does garbage collection, is not required to call cleanup callbacks. When and whether it does so is entirely down to the implementation of the JavaScript engine. When a registered object is reclaimed, any cleanup callbacks for it may be called then, or some time later, or not at all.

> In Node.js, for instance, [finalizers are not run](https://github.com/rustwasm/wasm-bindgen/issues/3917) when the code is purely or mostly synchronous. Depending on your engine and your application, you might experience a high usage of memory, even leading to a crash of the application due to an out-of-memory error. If this is your case, there's a simple solution to it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In practice, cleanup callbacks are run _asynchronously_ and _after_ the objects in internal memory have been garbage-collected. For instance in Node.js, [finalizers are not run](https://github.com/rustwasm/wasm-bindgen/issues/3917) when the code is purely or mostly synchronous.

Depending on your engine and your application, you might experience high memory usage, even leading to a crash of the application due to an out-of-memory error. If this is your case, here's what you can do to mitigate the problem:
```

## Giving the engine some time to breathe

If your application runs Slang in a tight loop, it is a good idea to add an asynchronous call, such as sleeping for a few milliseconds:

```javascript
await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 10));
```

> In our tests, adding this timeout was sufficient to give the `FinalizationRegistry` time to properly clean up the objects. The external memory reached a peak and then remained steady.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our tests, adding this timeout was sufficient to give the `FinalizationRegistry` time to properly clean up the objects. The external memory usage grows at the start, but eventually stabilizes and remains steady.
```

> # 9.2. Considerations on memory usage

Reviewer 2: I think there is a difference between the title `Considerations on memory usage` and the slug `slang-memory-management`. I suggest consolidating it here.

In practice, cleanup callbacks are run _asynchronously_ and _after_ the objects in internal memory have been garbage-collected. For instance in Node.js, [finalizers are not run](https://github.com/rustwasm/wasm-bindgen/issues/3917) when the code is purely or mostly synchronous.

Depending on your engine and your application, you might experience high memory usage, even leading to a crash of the application due to an out-of-memory error. If this is your case, here's what you can do to mitigate the problem:

## Giving the engine some time to breathe

If your application runs Slang in a tight loop, it is a good idea to add an asynchronous call, such as sleeping for a few milliseconds:

```javascript
await new Promise((r) => setTimeout(r, 10));
```

In our tests, adding this timeout was sufficient to give the `FinalizationRegistry` time to properly clean up the objects. The external memory usage grows at the start, but eventually stabilizes and remains steady.

> In an interactive environment, such as a browser, it should not be necessary to add such a pause, as the engine has several opportunities to perform cleanup while waiting for user input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In an interactive environment, such as an IDE or a browser, it should not be necessary to add such a pause, as the engine has several opportunities to perform cleanup while waiting for user input.
```
